yo what's up everybody
Eric Wong here and I'm here to answer
another one of your questions and let's
get right into it now I've got this
question from my body Dogg Wilkerson and
he's 32 years old says it's been doing
that made for about six years but he's
been injured a lot he's now recovering
from labrum surgery which is in the
shoulder and he says he's finding it
hard to stay in shape since he can't do
too much with his upper body I was
wondering if you had any advice on how
to go about getting lean again while
recovering from shoulder surgery well to
answer that question see this right up
here about this little continuum and
it's the nutrition exercise continue and
when it comes to getting lean and woke
up when it comes to losing body fat you
are about there lose fat you're about 80
90 percent of getting lean and losing
fat has to do with how you're eating 10
to 20 percent has to do with exercise so
even though you've got a shoulder injury
you can't do too much the good thing is
to get lean you don't need to do too
much with respect to exercise focus on
your diet clean foods you know go paleo
eat regular regularly try to get on some
type of schedule and try and get on some
type of plan avoid junk foods don't
drink your calories a lot of really
basic things the bottom line is you just
got to stick to it okay so if you got
crap foods in your house get rid of them
and that's gonna help you out alright so
on the other end of spectrum as we'll
talk about this now building muscle
you're gonna be down near more exercise
not as much as losing fat but maybe
about 70 to 80% of your muscle building
comes from your training you know there
twenty thirty percent comes from
nutrition this give or take and of
course it changes up for different body
types different people some people are
genetic freak stick and just look at a
dumbbell and they're gonna put on muscle
mass most people are like that okay
for you you've got to be training right
and be training consistently and then
supporting that with decent nutrition
see the thing is with building muscle
you can eat a little bit crap here and
as long as you're eating enough you're
gonna build some muscle now you might
also at the same time to put on fat but
if your main goal is to build muscle
exercise is the key now when it comes to
health I like to think of it as boom
right there right in the middle it's a
good balance between nutrition and
exercise so that is always where you're
focused if you're not injured that's
where you focus you want to get good
nutrition in and you want to train
properly not train too much I'm trained
too little and follow a proper program
okay when it comes to performance that's
gonna come somewhere around here it's
more to do with your training then your
nutrition but still nutrition is huge I
mean if you're not fueling your body
correctly you're not gonna have the
energy and more importantly you're not
gonna have the recovery to have
subsequent workouts day in day out okay
so my advice to you Don is focus on your
nutrition eat well consistently have a
cheat day maybe once a week or follow
that eighty eighty percent a student
rule eighty percent of time well twenty
percent of the time kind of be a little
bit more relaxed
alright buddy I hope you get some
benefit off that know where to put your
efforts and I hope that helps you get
lean while you're recovering from that
shoulder surgery the other benefit is if
you're focusing on good nutrition you
know eating proper amounts foods good
healthy foods getting some good fats in
especially omega threes and a balance of
different found saturated
polyunsaturated and monounsaturated dot
cells are gonna help to speed up your
recovery and of course we realistic here
got to think about other things like
sleep make sure you're sleeping well
dealing with stress all that good stuff
right dude
best of luck hope that helps you if you
want to check me out find me on Facebook
click the link up down somewhere around
here and I'll talk to you next time
peace